.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" See LICENSE
.\"
.TH NBSPD 8 "30 NOVEMBER, 2007"
.SH NAME
nbspd \- Noaaport Broadcast System Processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnbspd\fR [-c \fIconfigfile\fR] [-C] [-fqs] [-D [-D]] [-V [-V [-V]]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fInbspd\fR is a daemon that processes files received
via the Noaaport Broadcast System (NBS). It reads all the packets
received on all four noaaport channels and,
when all the fragments of a file are received,
assembles all the fragments back into the original file and
saves it in a spool directory. 
In the default configuration all the files are saved,
but a simple mechanism based on the use of regular expresions
provides for filtering the files that are processed and saved.
\fInbpsd\fR uses \fBsyslog\fR for reporting error conditions.
 
\fInbspd\fR can use the default configuration file 
\fI/usr/local/etc/nbsp/nbspd.conf\fR if that file exists, and an additional
configuration file passed via the \fB[-c]\fR option. If the \fB[-c]\fR switch
is given, the named file is read, and the settings are applied,
after those in the default configuration file.
A commented sample default configuration is provided which
explains all of the configurable options.

The other command-line options are for special purpose, rather than general,
use. The \fB[-C]\fR option option causes the program to print its configuration
and quit. One instance of the \fB[-D]\fR option runs the program in debug mode
and two instances disables becomming a daemon. The \fB[-V]\fR option increases
the verbosity level. The \fB[-f]\fR and \fB[-s]\fR options disable the
filters and the network server, respectively. The \fB[-q]\fR option
disables reading from the noaaport data stream, but the program
continues to process any data that may have accumulated in the queues.

\fBnbspd\fR accepts network client connections and it can distribute the files
this way. In particular, it can distribute a subset of the files,
packaged in an emwin format,
to regular emwin clients. In addition, filters can be loaded
to post-process all, or a subset of, the files as the received.
The distribution contains a filter that saves the
files in a GemPak compatible directory structure and in a format
compatible with that package's GUI viewer tools. Another supplied
filter saves the files in a format compatible with the Digital Atmosphere
program for windows. Other filters are supplied with the distribution,
and the program has many additional capabilities that are not mentioned here.
Since these aspects are subject to revision and evolution,
this man page does not explain how to enable and configure all the
available features. A User Guide is published in the program's
web site, \fBwww.noaaport.net\fR, and considerable information and instructions
are given in the configuration files themselves and the files in the
configuration directory.

.LP
.SS FILES
/usr/local/etc/nbsp/
.br
/usr/local/share/doc/nbsp/
.LP
.SS VERSION
1.5 - November 2007
.SS AUTHOR 
Jose F. Nieves
.br
nieves@ltp.upr.clu.edu
.br
Copyright 2005-2007
.br
