=TclMetar= 

**Tclmetar** is a library of procedures for decoding Metar reports
in Tcl scripts, thus making available the extensive processing
capabilities of [[http://www.tcl.tk|Tcl]] to manipulate the results
of the commands.

==Requirements==
In addition to Tcl, Tclmetar requires
[[http://www.tcl.tk/software/tcllib|Tcllib]],
but it has no further requirements.

==Downloading the software==
The source //tclmetar-<version>.tgz// of the Tclmetar library can be
downloaded from the software area of the
[[http://www.noaaport.net|Nbsp]]project.
The distribution comes with an INSTALL file that contains
the installation instructions, a set of examples to illustrate
the basic functionality, and with a README file that list the
available procedures and their usage.

In addition there are binary packages for FreeBSD and CentOS,
in tbz and rpm formats respectively, that can be installed with
the native package management tools (e.g., rpm, pkg_add).

==Installation==

===Requirements=== 

The following are required and must be installed:

> Tcl
> Tcllib

===Installing from Packages===

Binary packages exist for FreeBSD (tbz) and CentOS (rpm).
Since tclmetar is written entirely in Tcl and no compilation is involved,
the rpm packages should work anywhere rpm is the package management tool.

The packages, available from the software section at
[[http://www.noaaport.net|noaaport.net]], can be installed with
the native package management tools (e.g., rpm, pkg_add):

> rpm -i tclmetar-<version>.rpm
> pkg_add tclmetar-<version>.tbz

===Installation using the Makefile===

This boils down to executing

> ./configure.sh
> make install-dirs
> make install

inside the tclmetar distribution directory.

===Manual installation===

Tclmetar is written entirely in Tcl, so there is no compilation involved.
The package consists of single file ``metar.tcl'' and the accompanying
index file ``pkgIndex.tcl''.

Perhaps the best option is to create a directory ``tclmetar'' at the same
as the tcllib directory, and put both of the above files in that directory.

The files can be saved anywhere, for example

> /usr/local/lib/tcl_site

Any script that will use the package can then add the line

> lappend auto_path "/usr/local/lib/tcl_site"

before the ``package require metar'' and it will be found.

==Usage==

A script will typically be of the form

[[code]]
#!/usr/local/bin/tlsh8.4

package require tclmetar;

''load data''

foreach line $data {
    metar::decode $line;
    foreach param_name [lsort [::metar::get_param_list]] {
        set param_val [::metar::get_param $param_name]
    }
}
[[code]]

The complete set of procedures contained in the package are listed
and described in the README file mentioned above, and here we mention
a few, taken from the examples that are provided with the distribution
and the packages.

==Examples==

===Example 1===

===Example 2===

===Example 3===
